[Music]
then Joshua gathered all the tribes of
Israel to Shechem and called for the
elders of Israel for their heads for
their judges and for their officers and
they presented themselves before God
Joshua said to all the people thus says
the Lord God of Israel your father's
including tira the father of Abraham and
the father of nahor dwelt on the other
side of the river in old times and they
served other gods then I took your
father Abraham from the other side of
the river led him throughout all the
land of Canaan and multiplied his
descendants and gave him Isaac through
Isaac
I gave Jacob and Esau to ISA
I gave the mountains of Seir to possess
but Jacob and his children went down to
Egypt also I sent Moses and Aaron and I
plagued Egypt according to what I did
among them
afterward I brought you out then I
brought your father out of Egypt and you
came to the sea and the Egyptians
pursued your father's with chariots and
horsemen to the Red Sea so they cried
out to the Lord
and he put darkness between you and the
Egyptians brought the sea upon them and
covered them
and your eyes saw what I did in Egypt
then you dwelt in the wilderness a long
time and I brought you into the land of
the amorite s-- who dwelt on the other
side of the Jordan and they fought with
you but I gave them into your head that
you might possess their land and I
destroyed them from before you then
balak the son of zippor king of Moab
arose to make war against Israel and
sent and called Balaam the son of Beor
to curse you but I would not listen to
pay them therefore he continued to bless
you
so I delivered you out of his hand
[Music]
then you went over the Jordan and came
to Jericho and the men of Jericho fought
against you also the amorite the
parasites the Canaanites the Hittites
the girgashites the highlights and the
jebusites but I delivered them into your
hand
I sent the Hornet before you which drove
them out from before you also the two
kings of the amorite but not with your
sword or with your bow I have given you
a land for which you did not labor and
cities which you did not build and you
dwell in them
you eat up the vineyards and olive
groves which you did not plant now
therefore
fear of the Lord
serve Him in sincerity and in truth and
put away the gods which your father's
served and the other side of the river
and in Egypt
serve the Lord and if it seems evil to
you to serve the Lord choose for
yourselves this day whom you will serve
whether the gods which your father's
served that were on the other side of
the river or the gods of the amorite in
whose land you dwell but as for me and
my house we will serve the Lord so the
people answered far be it from us that
we should forsake the Lord to serve
other gods for the Lord our God is he
who brought us and our fathers up out of
the land of Egypt from the house of
bondage who did those great signs in our
sight and preserved us in all the way
that we went and among all the people
through whom we passed and the Lord
drove out from before us all the people
including the amma writes who dwelt in
the land we also will serve the Lord for
he
is our God you cannot serve the Lord for
he is a holy God he is a jealous God he
will not forgive your transgressions nor
your sins if you forsake the Lord and
serve foreign gods then he will turn and
do you harm and consume you after he has
done you good no but we will serve the
Lord you are witnesses against
yourselves that you have chosen the Lord
for yourselves to serve Him we are
witnesses
now therefore put away the foreign gods
which are among
and incline your heart to the Lord God
of Israel
the Lord our God we will serve and his
voice we will obey so Joshua made a
covenant with the people that day and
made for them a statute and an ordinance
in Shechem then Joshua wrote these words
in the book of the law of God and he
took a large stone and set it up there
under the oak that was by the sanctuary
of the Lord and Joshua said to all the
people behold this stone shall be a
witness to us for it has heard all the
words of the Lord which he spoke to us
it shall therefore be a witness to you
lest you deny your God so Joshua let the
people to part each to his own
inheritance
now it came to pass after these things
that Joshua the son of nun the servant
of the Lord died being 110 years old and
they buried him within the border of his
inheritance at Timnath Cielo which is in
the mountains of Ephraim on the north
side of Mount gash
Israel served the Lord all the days of
Joshua and all the days of the elders
who outlived Joshua who had known all
the works of the Lord which he had done
for Israel the bones of Joseph which the
children of Israel had brought up out of
Egypt they buried at Shechem and the
plot of ground which Jacob had bought
from the sons of Haman the father of
Shechem for 100 pieces of silver and
which had become an inheritance of the
children of Joseph and Eleazar the son
of Aaron died they buried him in a hill
belonging to Phineas his son which was
given to him in the mountains of Ephraim
Oh